## Lv12 → Lv 13

## Goal 
The password for the next level is stored in the file data.txt, which is a hexdump of a file that has been repeatedly compressed. For this level it may be useful to create a directory under /tmp in which you can work. Use mkdir with a hard to guess directory name. Or better, use the command “mktemp -d”. Then copy the datafile using cp, and rename it using mv (read the manpages!)

## Solution

### Commands Used

```bash
#setup
mktemp -d
cp data.txt /tmp/tmp.eQrmpAbLZf
cd /tmp/tmp.eQrmpAbLZf

#check file type 
file * 

# Convert hexdump to binary 
xxd -r data.txt > data.bin
file data.bin  # Check type again ( repeat this check every time you decompress something )

# convert files into correct format by using mv 
mv data.bin data.gz       # convert to correct extension
gzip -d data.gz           # Decompress
file data                 # Check next type

# Continue with each compression type presented 
# depending on compression type use : 

bzip2 -d 
tar xvf 

```

### Explanation
This level was an exercise in believing in yourself haha , here is my thought process to tackling it.

1) I set up using mktemp -d and cp data.txt /tmp 
    - created temp directory and copy data there 
2) I checked the file type (file *) and use xxd -r to revert the hexdump to binary 
3) I checked the file type again and saw that it was gzip compressed data so ofcourse after checking the man page (man gzip) i tried to decompress but was met with 

``` bash 
gzip: data.bin : unknown suffix -- ignored

```
4) This confused me for quite a bit cause i didn't understand why the file wasn't being decompressed, especially since the file said that the data was compressed in that specific way, so then i thought "okay .. maybe the data is what was compressed and its just stored in this file that hasnt had anything done to it" 
5) I then decided to try giving the file the correct extension by using the mv command, and that allowed me to decompress it finally.
6) the exercise then requires you to repeatedly convert and decompress different file types (gzip , bzip2 , POSIX tar archive (GNU)) and the important part is to keep decompressing even though it seems like you've been doing it for a while , its almost like the amount of decompressing you have to do is designed to make you doubt that what you're doing is correct.


### Key Concepts
- mktemp -d allows you to make a temp directory with a unique randomly generated name 
- In computing, a hex dump is a textual hexadecimal view (on screen or paper) of computer data, from memory or from a computer file or storage device.
- giving files different extensions using mv . 
- different compression types 